winds and currents sweep up the chaos of
the storm and two long lines of debris
not just flotsam everything is gathered
up including turtles this is a green
turtle the loggerhead will encounter
many of them on her journey they all go
along the lines of debris and edges of
currents their busy highways here in the
doldrums famous for its become sailors
the ocean sweepings stretch visibly for
hundreds of miles
nutrients churned up by the storm feed
clouds of microscopic plants
phytoplankton minuscule green worlds a
teaspoon of ocean contains thousands of
eggs and larvae like seed waiting for
spring tiny animals magically appear
Jenny's mice its krill
clouds of plankton makeup worldwide half
of life on Earth
it feeds the ocean
fish appear as if from nowhere
the schools gather around anything for
protection even this disconcerted turtle
the only other place for fish to hide is
behind each other looking for them are
the most intelligent predators in the
ocean
these are spinners in hundreds strong
super pots
calling to each other coordinating the
hunt
and spinning
are they getting their bearings
communicating shedding parasites or is
it just exuberance we don't know